---
title: "Kangaroo: A Tenant-Centric Software-Defined Cloud Infrastructure"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/ic2e2015
excerpt: 'This paper describes Kangaroo, a platform that integrates cloud VMs and overlay virtual networks'
date: 2015-04-01
venue: 'IEEE International Conference on Cloud Engineering'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7092908'
citation: 'K. Razavi et al., "Kangaroo: A Tenant-Centric Software-Defined Cloud Infrastructure," 2015 IEEE International Conference on Cloud Engineering, Tempe, AZ, USA, 2015, pp. 106-115, doi: 10.1109/IC2E.2015.19'
---

Applications on cloud infrastructures acquire virtual machines (VMs) from providers when necessary. The current interface for acquiring VMs from most providers, however, is too limiting for the tenants, in terms of granularity in which VMs can be acquired (e.g., small, medium, large, etc.), while giving very limited control over their placement. The former leads to VM underutilization, and the latter has performance implications, both translating into higher costs for the tenants. In this work, we leverage nested virtualization and a networking overlay to tackle these problems. We present Kangaroo, an Open Stack-based virtual infrastructure provider, and IPOP, a virtual networking switch for communication between nested VMs over different infrastructure VMs. In addition, we design and implement Skippy, the realization of our proposed virtual infrastructure API for programming Kangaroo. Our benchmarks show that through careful mapping of nested VMs to infrastructure VMs, Kangaroo achieves up to an order of magnitude better performance, with only half the cost on Amazon EC2. Further, Kangaroo's unified Open Stack API allows us to migrate an entire application between Amazon EC2 and our local Open Nebula deployment within a few minutes, without any downtime or modification to the application code.